src/langsmith/server-a2a.mdx, before:

---
title: A2A endpoint in Agent Server
sidebarTitle: A2A endpoint in Agent Server
---

[Agent2Agent (A2A)](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/) is Google's protocol for enabling communication between conversational AI agents. [LangSmith implements A2A support](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/cloud/reference/api/api_ref.html#tag/a2a/post/a2a/{assistant_id}), allowing your agents to communicate with other A2A-compatible agents through a standardized protocol.

The A2A endpoint is available in [Agent Server](/langsmith/agent-server) at `/a2a/{assistant_id}`.

## Supported methods

Agent Server supports the following A2A RPC methods:

- **message/send**: Send a message to an assistant and receive a complete response
- **message/stream**: Send a message and stream responses in real-time using Server-Sent Events (SSE)
- **tasks/get**: Retrieve the status and results of a previously created task

## Agent card discovery

Each assistant automatically exposes an A2A Agent Card that describes its capabilities and provides the information needed for other agents to connect. You can retrieve the agent card for any assistant using:

```
GET /.well-known/agent-card.json?assistant_id={assistant_id}
```

The agent card includes the assistant's name, description, available skills, supported input/output modes, and the A2A endpoint URL for communication.

## Requirements

To use A2A, ensure you have the following dependencies installed:

* `langgraph-api >= 0.4.21`

Install with:

```bash
pip install "langgraph-api>=0.4.21"
```

## Usage overview

To enable A2A:

* Upgrade to use langgraph-api>=0.4.21.
* Deploy your agent with message-based state structure.
* Connect with other A2A-compatible agents using the endpoint.

## Creating an A2A-compatible agent

This example creates an A2A-compatible agent that processes incoming messages using OpenAI's API and maintains conversational state. The agent defines a message-based state structure and handles the A2A protocol's message format.

To be compatible with the [A2A "text" parts](https://a2a-protocol.org/dev/specification/#651-textpart-object), the agent must have a `messages` key in state.

The A2A protocol uses two identifiers to maintain conversational continuity:
* `contextId`: Groups messages into a conversation thread (like a session ID)
* `taskId`: Identifies each individual request within that conversation

On the first message, omit `contextId` and `taskId` - the agent will generate and return them. For all subsequent messages in the conversation, include the `contextId` and `taskId` from the prior response to maintain thread continuity.

**LangSmith Tracing:** The Langsmith Deployment A2A endpoint automatically converts the A2A `contextId` to `thread_id` for LangSmith tracing, grouping all messages in the conversation under a single thread.

Here's an example:

```python
"""LangGraph A2A conversational agent.

Supports the A2A protocol with messages input for conversational interactions.
"""

from __future__ import annotations

import os
from dataclasses import dataclass
from typing import Any, Dict, List, TypedDict

from langgraph.graph import StateGraph
from langgraph.runtime import Runtime
from openai import AsyncOpenAI


class Context(TypedDict):
    """Context parameters for the agent."""
    my_configurable_param: str


@dataclass
class State:
    """Input state for the agent.

    Defines the initial structure for A2A conversational messages.
    """
    messages: List[Dict[str, Any]]


async def call_model(state: State, runtime: Runtime[Context]) -> Dict[str, Any]:
    """Process conversational messages and returns output using OpenAI."""
    # Initialize OpenAI client
    client = AsyncOpenAI(api_key=os.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY"))

    # Process the incoming messages
    latest_message = state.messages[-1] if state.messages else {}
    user_content = latest_message.get("content", "No message content")

    # Create messages for OpenAI API
    openai_messages = [
        {
            "role": "system",
            "content": "You are a helpful conversational agent. Keep responses brief and engaging."
        },
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": user_content
        }
    ]

    try:
        # Make OpenAI API call
        response = await client.chat.completions.create(
            model="gpt-3.5-turbo",
            messages=openai_messages,
            max_tokens=100,
            temperature=0.7
        )

        ai_response = response.choices[0].message.content

    except Exception as e:
        ai_response = f"I received your message but had trouble processing it. Error: {str(e)[:50]}..."

    # Create a response message
    response_message = {
        "role": "assistant",
        "content": ai_response
    }

    return {
        "messages": state.messages + [response_message]
    }


# Define the graph
graph = (
    StateGraph(State, context_schema=Context)
    .add_node(call_model)
    .add_edge("__start__", "call_model")
    .compile()
)
```

## Agent-to-agent communication

Once your agents are running locally via `langgraph dev` or [deployed to production](/langsmith/deployments), you can facilitate communication between them using the A2A protocol.

This example demonstrates how two agents can communicate by sending JSON-RPC messages to each other's A2A endpoints. The script simulates a multi-turn conversation where each agent processes the other's response and continues the dialogue.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
"""Agent-to-Agent conversation simulation using the LangGraph A2A endpoint."""

import asyncio
import aiohttp
import os
import uuid


def extract_text(result: dict) -> str:
    """Best-effort extraction of response text from an A2A result."""
    for art in result.get("result", {}).get("artifacts", []) or []:
        for part in art.get("parts", []) or []:
            if part.get("kind") == "text" and part.get("text"):
                return part["text"]

    msg = (result.get("result", {}).get("status", {}) or {}).get("message", {}) or {}
    for part in msg.get("parts", []) or []:
        if part.get("kind") == "text" and part.get("text"):
            return part["text"]

    return "(no text found)"


async def send_message(session, port, assistant_id, text, context_id=None, task_id=None):
    """Send an A2A message. Returns (response_text, returned_context_id, returned_task_id)."""
    url = f"http://127.0.0.1:{port}/a2a/{assistant_id}"

    message = {
        "role": "user",
        "parts": [{"kind": "text", "text": text}],
        "messageId": str(uuid.uuid4()),
    }

    # A2A multi-turn continuity: reuse contextId and taskId across turns/agents
    if context_id:
        message["contextId"] = context_id
    if task_id:
        message["taskId"] = task_id

    payload = {
        "jsonrpc": "2.0",
        "id": str(uuid.uuid4()),
        "method": "message/send",
        "params": {"message": message},
    }

    headers = {"Accept": "application/json"}
    async with session.post(url, json=payload, headers=headers) as response:
        result = await response.json()

    returned_context_id = result.get("result", {}).get("contextId") or context_id
    returned_task_id = result.get("result", {}).get("id")
    return extract_text(result), returned_context_id, returned_task_id


async def simulate_conversation():
    """Simulate a conversation between two agents."""

    #Assistant IDs
    agent_a_id = os.getenv("AGENT_A_ID")
    agent_b_id = os.getenv("AGENT_B_ID")

    if not agent_a_id or not agent_b_id:
        print("Set AGENT_A_ID and AGENT_B_ID environment variables")
        return

    message = "Hello! Let's have a conversation."
    context_id = None
    task_id = None

    async with aiohttp.ClientSession() as session:
        for i in range(3):
            print(f"--- Round {i + 1} ---")

            message, context_id, task_id = await send_message(
                session, 2024, agent_a_id, message,
                context_id=context_id,
                task_id=task_id,
            )
            print(f"🔵 Agent A: {message}")

            message, context_id, task_id = await send_message(
                session, 2025, agent_b_id, message,
                context_id=context_id,
                task_id=task_id,
            )
            print(f"🔴 Agent B: {message}\n")


if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(simulate_conversation())
```


## Disable A2A

To disable the A2A endpoint, set `disable_a2a` to `true` in your `langgraph.json` configuration file:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://langgra.ph/schema.json",
  "http": {
    "disable_a2a": true
  }
}
```

Commit message:

chore(docs): added github examples

src/langsmith/server-a2a.mdx, after:

---
title: A2A endpoint in Agent Server
sidebarTitle: A2A endpoint in Agent Server
---

[Agent2Agent (A2A)](https://a2a-protocol.org/latest/) is Google's protocol for enabling communication between conversational AI agents. [LangSmith implements A2A support](https://langchain-ai.github.io/langgraph/cloud/reference/api/api_ref.html#tag/a2a/post/a2a/{assistant_id}), allowing your agents to communicate with other A2A-compatible agents through a standardized protocol.

The A2A endpoint is available in [Agent Server](/langsmith/agent-server) at `/a2a/{assistant_id}`.

## Supported methods

Agent Server supports the following A2A RPC methods:

- **message/send**: Send a message to an assistant and receive a complete response
- **message/stream**: Send a message and stream responses in real-time using Server-Sent Events (SSE)
- **tasks/get**: Retrieve the status and results of a previously created task

## Agent card discovery

Each assistant automatically exposes an A2A Agent Card that describes its capabilities and provides the information needed for other agents to connect. You can retrieve the agent card for any assistant using:

```
GET /.well-known/agent-card.json?assistant_id={assistant_id}
```

The agent card includes the assistant's name, description, available skills, supported input/output modes, and the A2A endpoint URL for communication.

## Requirements

To use A2A, ensure you have the following dependencies installed:

* `langgraph-api >= 0.4.21`

Install with:

```bash
pip install "langgraph-api>=0.4.21"
```

## Usage overview

To enable A2A:

* Upgrade to use langgraph-api>=0.4.21.
* Deploy your agent with message-based state structure.
* Connect with other A2A-compatible agents using the endpoint.

## Creating an A2A-compatible agent

This example creates an A2A-compatible agent that processes incoming messages using OpenAI's API and maintains conversational state. The agent defines a message-based state structure and handles the A2A protocol's message format.

To be compatible with the [A2A "text" parts](https://a2a-protocol.org/dev/specification/#651-textpart-object), the agent must have a `messages` key in state.

The A2A protocol uses two identifiers to maintain conversational continuity:
* `contextId`: Groups messages into a conversation thread (like a session ID)
* `taskId`: Identifies each individual request within that conversation

On the first message, omit `contextId` and `taskId` - the agent will generate and return them. For all subsequent messages in the conversation, include the `contextId` and `taskId` from the prior response to maintain thread continuity.

**LangSmith Tracing:** The Langsmith Deployment A2A endpoint automatically converts the A2A `contextId` to `thread_id` for LangSmith tracing, grouping all messages in the conversation under a single thread.

Here's an example:

```python
"""LangGraph A2A conversational agent.

Supports the A2A protocol with messages input for conversational interactions.
"""

from __future__ import annotations

import os
from dataclasses import dataclass
from typing import Any, Dict, List, TypedDict

from langgraph.graph import StateGraph
from langgraph.runtime import Runtime
from openai import AsyncOpenAI


class Context(TypedDict):
    """Context parameters for the agent."""
    my_configurable_param: str


@dataclass
class State:
    """Input state for the agent.

    Defines the initial structure for A2A conversational messages.
    """
    messages: List[Dict[str, Any]]


async def call_model(state: State, runtime: Runtime[Context]) -> Dict[str, Any]:
    """Process conversational messages and returns output using OpenAI."""
    # Initialize OpenAI client
    client = AsyncOpenAI(api_key=os.getenv("OPENAI_API_KEY"))

    # Process the incoming messages
    latest_message = state.messages[-1] if state.messages else {}
    user_content = latest_message.get("content", "No message content")

    # Create messages for OpenAI API
    openai_messages = [
        {
            "role": "system",
            "content": "You are a helpful conversational agent. Keep responses brief and engaging."
        },
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": user_content
        }
    ]

    try:
        # Make OpenAI API call
        response = await client.chat.completions.create(
            model="gpt-3.5-turbo",
            messages=openai_messages,
            max_tokens=100,
            temperature=0.7
        )

        ai_response = response.choices[0].message.content

    except Exception as e:
        ai_response = f"I received your message but had trouble processing it. Error: {str(e)[:50]}..."

    # Create a response message
    response_message = {
        "role": "assistant",
        "content": ai_response
    }

    return {
        "messages": state.messages + [response_message]
    }


# Define the graph
graph = (
    StateGraph(State, context_schema=Context)
    .add_node(call_model)
    .add_edge("__start__", "call_model")
    .compile()
)
```

## Agent-to-agent communication

Once your agents are running locally via `langgraph dev` or [deployed to production](/langsmith/deployments), you can facilitate communication between them using the A2A protocol.

This example demonstrates how two agents can communicate by sending JSON-RPC messages to each other's A2A endpoints. The script simulates a multi-turn conversation where each agent processes the other's response and continues the dialogue.

```python
#!/usr/bin/env python3
"""Agent-to-Agent conversation simulation using the LangGraph A2A endpoint."""

import asyncio
import aiohttp
import os
import uuid


def extract_text(result: dict) -> str:
    """Best-effort extraction of response text from an A2A result."""
    for art in result.get("result", {}).get("artifacts", []) or []:
        for part in art.get("parts", []) or []:
            if part.get("kind") == "text" and part.get("text"):
                return part["text"]

    msg = (result.get("result", {}).get("status", {}) or {}).get("message", {}) or {}
    for part in msg.get("parts", []) or []:
        if part.get("kind") == "text" and part.get("text"):
            return part["text"]

    return "(no text found)"


async def send_message(session, port, assistant_id, text, context_id=None, task_id=None):
    """Send an A2A message. Returns (response_text, returned_context_id, returned_task_id)."""
    url = f"http://127.0.0.1:{port}/a2a/{assistant_id}"

    message = {
        "role": "user",
        "parts": [{"kind": "text", "text": text}],
        "messageId": str(uuid.uuid4()),
    }

    # A2A multi-turn continuity: reuse contextId and taskId across turns/agents
    if context_id:
        message["contextId"] = context_id
    if task_id:
        message["taskId"] = task_id

    payload = {
        "jsonrpc": "2.0",
        "id": str(uuid.uuid4()),
        "method": "message/send",
        "params": {"message": message},
    }

    headers = {"Accept": "application/json"}
    async with session.post(url, json=payload, headers=headers) as response:
        result = await response.json()

    returned_context_id = result.get("result", {}).get("contextId") or context_id
    returned_task_id = result.get("result", {}).get("id")
    return extract_text(result), returned_context_id, returned_task_id


async def simulate_conversation():
    """Simulate a conversation between two agents."""

    #Assistant IDs
    agent_a_id = os.getenv("AGENT_A_ID")
    agent_b_id = os.getenv("AGENT_B_ID")

    if not agent_a_id or not agent_b_id:
        print("Set AGENT_A_ID and AGENT_B_ID environment variables")
        return

    message = "Hello! Let's have a conversation."
    context_id = None
    task_id = None

    async with aiohttp.ClientSession() as session:
        for i in range(3):
            print(f"--- Round {i + 1} ---")

            message, context_id, task_id = await send_message(
                session, 2024, agent_a_id, message,
                context_id=context_id,
                task_id=task_id,
            )
            print(f"🔵 Agent A: {message}")

            message, context_id, task_id = await send_message(
                session, 2025, agent_b_id, message,
                context_id=context_id,
                task_id=task_id,
            )
            print(f"🔴 Agent B: {message}\n")


if __name__ == "__main__":
    asyncio.run(simulate_conversation())
```

For complete working examples, see:
- [Two LangGraph agents communicating](https://github.com/langchain-samples/A2A-langgraph) - Example of two LangGraph agents using the A2A protocol
- [Google ADK agent with LangChain agent](https://github.com/langchain-samples/A2A-google-adk) - Example of a Google ADK agent interacting with a LangChain agent using the A2A protocol

## Disable A2A

To disable the A2A endpoint, set `disable_a2a` to `true` in your `langgraph.json` configuration file:

```json
{
  "$schema": "https://langgra.ph/schema.json",
  "http": {
    "disable_a2a": true
  }
}
```
